what YouTube channels are producing videos with keywords you are interested in? You
may be curious simply for personal viewing, but you
may also want to collect videos or channels related to keywords of interest for reference in content production or, as I showed you in the last video, when you want to restrict outbound marketing to YouTubers. If you
use web crawling, you can collect the YouTube data you want in a
sheet.
Today, I will
talk about how to build a system that can automatically collect YouTube data for free without coding by using Make and Seo. For the
sheet for practice, please refer to the video description below.
Let's get started right away.
Before we set up the automation in earnest, let's take a
look at the flow of how we will build the automation system.
We
will build this automation system in two steps.
First, we will collect videos based on the keywords we want on YouTube.
There will be a list of channels that uploaded each video. Then, we
will collect the channel list separately as a second task. First, as you can see,
we will enter keyword information in the sheet like this.
Then, we will  We will
get it from the sheet and
based on the keywords we got, we will use this bra to
extract the latest videos searched by keywords from YouTube. Then,
if we do the automation after extracting them, there will be
videos that we have already collected,
so we will get them to compare the already collected videos or
channel data and
update the sheet only for the video data that has not already been collected. Then,
after updating the video data in the sheet, we
will update the channel data.
So, in the case of channel data, we will re-appear a unique channel list that was
not previously collected in the new video data. We
will search for those channels on YouTube again. We will collect the
exact channel
information through the channel search on YouTube and update the
sheet based on the collected information.
If you build an automation system like this, if we run
this process periodically, for example, every week or every month, you will be able to
automatically collect the
latest videos related to the keywords that I am interested in
and the channels that uploaded those videos.
Then, when you need to inquire about business with those channels later or
want to check what video references there are recently, you can easily use them.
Now,
let's take a look at the sheet structure that will be connected to Make.
Sheet  In the same case, I have
already set up the structure for testing.
In the keyword sheet, I created a column where you can add keywords.
Then, I created a sheet called YouTube Video
where video data can be accumulated.
So, I created columns where you can collect upload
date, video ID, channel, video
length, title, number of churches, video link, channel
link, etc.
Then, when you
accumulate data on this video, you said that you would
do another channel search with the channel link.
So, in the YouTube channel
tab, I created columns where you can update the handle, channel name, subscriber, channel
link, channel description, and
when it was last updated. After you have
created the sheet structure like this,
come to Make and
create a scenario. Now, I
will set up Make in earnest. If
you need a completely basic explanation of Make, I recommend that you
first check out the Make tutorial that I covered in the previous video.
Today, I will explain the
process of actually implementing this web crawling.
Create a new scenario in Make.
This time, I will name the scenario YouTube information
collection.
And now, the settings.  I'll do it for you. The
first thing you need to do is to
get these keywords from the keyword worksheet in Google Sheets. Ah,
so go to Google Sheets and
find the keyword value here.
So, find the sheet we created here and
select the keyword. If you
set the column range right away, we'll only get it if there is a value in the keyword column in the filter.
And we'll get it in row number order.
And here, you
can specify a limit. If you
enter multiple keywords, you
can get them all and process them.
For now, we'll get just one for testing and
test it.
Of course, if you increase the limit later, you'll be
able to process multiple keywords at once. For now, we
'll start with one because this has a free usage
limit, so you
shouldn't go over the quota while practicing, so let's start with one and
proceed.
Now, let's run it.
Right-
click and run this module.
Then, you can see that the keyword called no code is being
fetched.
You can see that the first row in our sheet is being fetched well. If you
fetch the keyword like this,  Next, we need to
search for this keyword on YouTube to
get information. We
need to get video information. At that time,
what we can use is serve API.
Serv API ES
Search YouTube. If you don't
see Search YouTube, go to Search more and search more. There is
YouTube like this.
Select YouTube.
When you first create a connection like this, you need to enter an API key.
So to enter this,
go to surf api.com and
log in. After you log in,
there is an API key on the left.
Click on this API key and click on jate API
key. Copy your API key and
enter it.
Now, if you save, the
connection will be made like this. Then, you
can now get information from YouTube. Here,
we need to enter the keyword value called no code.
So,
select a keyword.
Since we mainly want to find videos based on Korea, we will
set the country to Korea. We will also set the ear map to Korean.
Now, you need to set a filter.
What is a filter?
When we search on YouTube, we
can filter and search.
In our case,
when we collect videos on a weekly or monthly basis, it would be good to
filter them to only retrieve videos from this month.
So in that case, it
would be good to filter them.
For example, if you searched for YouTube videos
with no code, I
want to apply a filter to them. Then, if you
go into the filter and look at this month and
high relevance, this month relevance, and if you
look at the filtered state, the
URL SP on the right has this filter
value. There is a filter ID value.
Then, you
can put this in the filter value in Make. However, if you
do this, you may want to check how
the search is actually done through the sub API
without running the operation. In
that case, there is a page called serve API
playground, serve
api.com / playground.
Select YouTube search there. Just
like we specified earlier,
enter Korea and Korean, and enter the same value in the filter.
Then, let's
put no code here. If you do this and
search, you can test it.
Then, you
can see that it appears like this. If you
look here, all the recent videos are recent
videos. The values appear like this.  You
can check the
filter. So you
can see that the filter is applied well. You can enter the applied filter
in the sub API a filter value.
Honestly, you
don't need to use the rest. Just
cache it, and at the
same time, let's use it voluntarily, and
there are settings like how to display the output. Usually,
when collecting data, you don't have to set the
values. You can leave them blank. Only the
last one is important. The last page
limit is how many pages of
information you want to retrieve. The default is
1.
It only retrieves the first visible page. If you
increase the page, you
can retrieve up to 2 pages.
For now, I'll set it to 1.
This is to prevent the quota from exceeding, and to
show only the minimum information.
If you're
collecting medals and
want to retrieve multiple pages, you
can set it to 2 or 3 instead of 1. Then, if you
set it like this, you can retrieve the Surf API's
YouTube data. Let's
try to retrieve the R senior data. Now, here.  I got a no-code
keyword, and
based on that keyword, you can
see that the video values are all loaded into the video ret like this. I
loaded YouTube information well through the Br API,
but what exactly does the sub API do?
In fact, there
is an API that YouTube officially provides, so you can
get information by coding it yourself.
But in that case, you
need to know how to code,
and there are various limitations when you get the API.
But now, if you
use the serv API, you
need to consider the coding work required to use the API, things like cutters required for maintenance, and
when the API is modified, you need to
modify the code accordingly. It
acts as an intermediary for all these things. So, if
we use the sub API, we
can get YouTube information more easily.
And not only YouTube, but
also this sub API can easily get information from various Google-related services such as Google Search, Google
Maps, Google Scholar,
and
engines such as Yahoo, Naver, and Elf.
So, you
can think of it as a tool that you can easily use when searching Naver data, Google Finance data, and things like that. In this way, you can use the Br API to
get video information.  I brought it.
Now, we need to update this video information in the sheet.
Before updating the sheet, I
told you that we need to bring in the already collected
video and channel data and compare them.
What this means is that if we already
have this collected data in the sheet, we
don't need to add the same information again. So, in order to check if there are
duplicate videos or duplicate channels when it runs periodically, we need to
bring in the information in the sheet first.
So, let's do that.
So, we've already collected the video data, but
now we
're going to bring in the sheet data additionally.
This time, we
're not going to bring in touch, but range values. So, we're going to
bring in values for specific parts. You can also specify the sheet here.
Let's bring in the video data first. Since the video
data will be compared by link, we can
bring in the video link part.
Let's set g1b after G2. First, we
'll set the range to the extent of Manhaeng. And there's a header. There's a
G1 header. Set it like this.
Then, we'll bring in all the video links.
After bringing in the video links, you
can't just compare them. You have to bring these links into the sheet.
If it is done, each will be bundled into a single bundle.
Here, there is a bundle written like this. It will be
bundled. I will
show you how to bundle it. If you run it
once and run it, you will see that there are
multiple bundles like this.
Since there are up to 39, 39 bundles will be
displayed. However, if we
do some contrasting work or do the
subsequent work in this state,
what kind of problem will occur?
Here, there are bundles 1, 2, 3, 4. We have
done all the post-processing for bundle 1, and then we
work on bundle 2. In this way,
if a module that consumes three operations enters here,
since there are 39 bundles, it will consume 39 * 3 operations.
In short,
it is currently displayed as 1, but the actual
results from this work are 39,
so we will do all the subsequent work for 39 separately. So
of course, that won't work.
So how should we do this?
In the end, what we
want to do is not all the values, but
only collect the video links.  You can check if this
newly searched video link is
included in the existing link.
So
we'll merge all these values. Then,
how do we merge this bundle? Go into flow control and
there's Ray Regey.
And here, you have to
select the value brought in from Google Sheets Range Value. You
can select Video Link. You can merge only the video link value.
So, set it like this and
click Oi. Now, this Regulator ES
bundle will
merge only the values for the video link into one value. You can merge it
like this with Ray Regey. We'll
do the same for getting channel information.
We have to get the channel information now, so click
Get Range Value. In
the same way, from the YouTube crawling sheet,
this time we'll get the channel sheet. In
the case of the channel sheet, since it's a channel link, we can
get the column. We'll do it from d 1
to d. The table
header is the same as d1. Set it like
this. For the same reason, we
'll merge the values into the array Ei.
This time, you have to select Lane Value 5, 5.
And here, you need to
merge the channel links.
Then, now, we are ready to combine the
information of the existing sheet into one array and
compare it.
Then, we need to compare these values with the
values of the video research that we got from this search and
update only the non-duplicated ones in the sheet.
If you look at this sub API, there is one bundle. But
the values that we want to compare are these video retrievals,
1 2 3 4 to 20. We want to compare
each of these values one by one
with the combined value.
So, we
need to split this bundle into 20 bundles this time. You can
use the iterator in the flow control.
Here,
select the video results array, which contains the video information.
If you click OK, the video
information bundles will be split one by one.
Then, we can compare the split ones. We
need to update the sheet for the videos that are not duplicated by comparing them. So, I will
connect the sheets first. We need to
add rows in the sheet.  Okay,
so first, add a sheet row. Add it
to the video tab like this. I
'll split the iterator into values one by one. So let's
set this first and then
set the filter. Here, the upload
date is the Pavli date. Then, the channel
channel is here. The channel name is here. The length is the
video title. You
can set all the matching like this.
View. Then, the video link. The video link is
here. Then, you can
put the channel link in the channel like this.
There's also something called a video ID.
In the previous video, I
talked about how to use the
formula. Using the formula, we
'll extract the ID value with the video link value. The
ID value is the value that V is doing
or the value after it. By
writing it as a string, you can
first put in the link. Then, the string can now
use the index among the values of this link to
set where to split it from.
Here,
you have to split it from the beginning to the end,
so you have to set the starting point well.
There is a starting point called index oh, so do index oh and
put this link video link and
then when you go in like this, since it is a
link to index oh,
there is an index with oh in the link, so we
bring that in and now we
want to bring the next one in there, so you have to plus
1. So
if you look at the math function here, there is a plus button.
We can't put the plus directly,
but we have to put it in with this plus.
Put the plus and then do 1 like this. And I
left the last part empty because we are going to bring it to the end.
So you do
n't have to put anything here and if you set it like this, if we
have 20 video links in our iterator, they
will be inserted one by one. So
now this row is set to be added one by one.
So up to here, it's
good, but when you add, you have to
filter the existing videos,
so we will do that filtering. You
can do the filter in the middle of the iterator and the Google sheet. Here,
click the button in the middle and
go to the setup filter. Here,
we  The filter to do is to
check if there are any duplicate videos.
So,
please set it to Check for Duplicate Videos. For the condition, I
created two array aggregates. The one
right next to this
is to get channel information, and the one that comes
first is an array that
has information about the array aggregator video. If you
click here, you can see the
video link. You
can't click on the link. You
have to get the array itself. That's because you
want to get all the information included. So, if you
click on this, you
will only get one of the information. Please select the entire array. But
in this entire array, we only
want to include values for video links. Then, you
can use the formula called map to set it to get only the information related to this video link from this array.
When you specify the column name here, you can't say video link.
Here, the row that is written now is
0. So you have to
enter the row ID. Since it is 0, I
will set it to 0. Then,
this array
aggregator ES links
have combined values. Only those values.  Extract and bring it.
Then those values
should be compared with the Rainy array.
Then, the array operator should contain the
values contained here. This new
video link. Where is the new video link?
There is an iterator.
This iterator a link. This iterator does
not contain each link. Then,
filter and
pass only the ones that are not contained and add them to the sheet. You
can set it like this.
Do you understand? Then, we added the video.
Then, we
need to update the channel information. However,
when updating the channel information,
many videos have been added, but some of them
may already have channel information. We have
already updated the video of the channel called Citizen Developer,
so the channel information will
already have the information called Citizen Developer.
Then, when a
new video is uploaded to that channel from Citizen Developer,
the video information
will be collected, but there is no need to collect it in the channel information. Since it
is an existing channel, we
need to compare it again.
This time, through this filter,
for the videos that will be added, the
channel links of those channels
will be collected. And those channels are also
duplicated.  There may be, because there
may be channels that uploaded multiple videos. Among the searched videos, the
channels extracted from the iterator ES are
merged back into one.
After merging, a unique value is extracted from it.
This way, we
can use it when comparing channel information.
So what we're going to do here is, we're
going to merge the information again, so we're going to
create another array aggregator.
And the array aggregator
ES has to get from the last iterator, the video
link. We're
going to get the channel information here. The channel information
contains a link, so we're going to get it. The
important thing here is that you can't just get the entire link. We
're going to check for channel duplication here. So we've
saved the channel links in the second array aggregate. The channel links that we already have in the sheet.
Similarly, we're going to use the map to
extract only the channel link values that are 0 from this array. And we're going to
compare the ray and the iterator A channel link. If it's
not included, we're going to merge them. This is how it's
going to work. So now, we're going to
get the channel information from the sheet.  The array
ligator was called and gathered, and the values were made into
an array using the condition map function. And
the values were compared with the
channel links of each video we collected by extracting the iterator ES, and
only the new channels were filtered. So
only the new channels were filtered and the array
aggregator was collected. It was
collected here and then collected as channels. But the
new channel
may have uploaded multiple videos,
so it will extract only the unique values by counting the collected ones using the s.
So it will
create a unique link. To
create a unique link, you
can use the distra function. And you can
put the array we created here. And
then this
is a channel. Then, in the array, there
is a value called link.
All the channel links will be included here.
In this array, there
is a value called channel, and there are properties such as name link,
verify, and thumbnail. Among
them, we
want to load the link. So, we
want to create a single variable without duplicate values of the link.  So, you can
select a link. If you look here, you
can see that Rowe is inserting a link joker. Now,
by doing this, we have
brought all the channel links that were previously in the sheet. We have
compared them with the new link and the previously loaded value,
filtered out only those that were not included, and
merged them. After merging them, we have extracted only the unique
values from the channel links. Now, only the unique values are
entered here as an
array. Since these are entered as an array,
we will search the YouTube channels one by one through the sub API
Pro.
So, to set them one by one, we will
iterate again and
set this unique link.
Now, there are five unique links. We
can split the five into one and search now.
After splitting them like this,
the channel links will be included, so we will
search YouTube again through the sub API.
Select YouTube again, and
when we search here, the last
iterator value will be entered. Since
we haven't run the part after this, there are
no values that can be selected yet.
So, if you do this unlink, this will be
Now, let's make it not return like this and
run the iterator again here.
Since the channel information has not been updated yet, if the video
information is not duplicated, we will add it.
Run
once, run how. Let's check if there are any additional videos. As you can
see here, several have been
added. There were 39 before, and they have
been added like this. If you look at the filter, you
can see that those that are included are excluded and only those that are not included are processed as successful. So 11 have been added.
For the channel, we have collected the ray ligator
like this. There is a
value called link in the channel. We
use the unique link to find the value in it. But if you look here, there is only
one value in the unique link. But
we have
not one channel here, but several. You
can see that the properly distinguished value is not being extracted. The reason for
this is that
we
have set the array here to the last ray ligator.
And then we just called the link value.
This
is the link value in the channel. So the
row ID value of the channel is the link value of the channel.
Let's do this and run it again. Then, 12 videos
have been added this time. If you look at it like this, you
can see that all the unique values are properly displayed. So,
when you displayed the link in the tool earlier, you
selected an array, and in it, we
want to get only the link values, but the link is
not just there, there is a link in the channel,
so
in that case, if you specify it as a channel dot link, you
can see that it is properly retrieved.
Then, we
grouped these unique links into a collection and
put them in one bundle as 1 2 3 4 56. Then, if we
pass the values through an iterator, we
split one bundle of six channels into six bundles.
After splitting, there are links in here. Then,
we search again with this link value.
Then, please
reconnect this and
specify the keyword as the search query and the last iterator a as the link value.
We will search with the link. In the
same way, we
will set the rest to Korea. And this time, we
will use the channel filter as the filter. The channel filter is
also  If you search on YouTube, it's a filter
value, so let's put this in right away and
leave the rest blank and do the key. Now, we search for channel
values like this. I'll
show you on YouTube. For example, if
we search by link, we
search by channel in the filter.
Then, the values will
appear like this. Then, if you search by link like this,
multiple channels will usually appear.
It's not that only the exact same channels
appear, but multiple values appear.
Then, we have to compare this and
update the link that is correct.
So, since there will be multiple values again, we'll
split it again. We
'll split it using this layer. I'll
hard code one link here and
return only this. Then, the
channel layer will appear like this. Then,
there's an iterator called channel tree. We'll
put the value in. That
's because when we searched here, the
channel values appeared as channel tree.
So, if we
set it as an array,
if there are multiple values, we'll
split the iterator here. But here, the
thing to keep in mind is that
we're using the link here.  You receive a value and search it,
but when we receive it before, the
link sometimes breaks or
returns a strange value, and the
link value searched here does
not retrieve any search results, so an error
may occur. So we
will set it to ignore the error and move on to the next one.
So right-click on the sub API,
click on the error handler, and add a node. If you
add a node like this, for
example, if the sub API ES
outputs the results of dog, if the
third one has an error, the third one will
pass and the fourth one
will return the results again. Then, we need to receive the returned
iterator server API channel ret and
update the channel sheet.
Let's first create a module that adds an AD row to the sheet module. Here, we
will update the channel sheet. Since
all of these values will be received through the sub API
channel ret, you can select
each of the values that correspond to these values one by one.
Description
And the update date is today's date.
Calendar  Let's go into the tab and
select Now. We
've set it up like this. But
now, we
need to update only the new channels that match here. When
we search for channel links on YouTube through this sub API, we
may not necessarily show only the channels that match the channel as the results.
So when various results
come out, we divide the
iterator and compare them. We need to
compare all the result values and filter and update the
channels that are identical to the links we actually searched.
So, you can specify the filter here
as a setup filter between the iterator and the sheet.
We'll call it link matching. We'll compare the
sub API a result values that we extracted with the link
value and the link we searched for
here, the iterator a link, and
set it up so that if the two are the same, the sheet will be updated.
In addition, we'll check
once more whether the channel link is not in the existing sheet.
So, we had to use an array operator.
So, the existing channel links of the second array
aggregate array are
included.
This is like what we did before.  Let's
use the map function to set the ID to 0 and
extract all the links.
In the links,
the link that we requested to search for is not included.
And
among the ones that are not included, find the ones that have the same actual result value and the searched link
value and
update the sheet. Let's set it like this.
And we
'll add one more filter. We
extracted these unique link values from the source and
searched them through the iterator.
However, an error can occur when passing the iterator. What
if there are
no unique link values? Let's
create a filter that checks whether there is a new channel itself. We'll
check the array in which this unique link exists.
So there's something called MT Ray.
Select this and set it to not equal 2 so that
it moves to the back only if it's not an MT array.
Now, if there are no links in the MT array,
rather than generating an error, it will just end here.
Then, let's delete a few of the existing images and
try again.
Press Run Once to do it once.  Let's
try it again. Six video
values have been added like this, and in the case of channels,
five channels have been added. If you
look at the sheet, you can see that six videos
have been added and five channels have been added. As you
can see here, it
seems that many videos with very low views are being captured. However, if you want to
collect videos that have too low views and
want to collect videos that have high views, you can modify the filter value in that case.
So instead of setting the API filter value
to this, you
can filter the results in the desired format on YouTube, and
then enter that filter
in the playground that I explained earlier and
search.
If you think that the results come out in the desired format, you can
use it instead of that filter. Today, I
learned about how to collect YouTube channel videos and channel information related to keywords that I'm interested in by simply utilizing the surf ap man in Make. Currently, Make n
1,000 operations and
API n 100 searches
can be used for free per month.
So, if you want to collect video or channel information on a weekly or monthly basis, you can do
it.  You can use it for free. It would be
good to practice while watching the video. Of course, you
can crawl data by writing the code yourself without using Make.
These days, you can
use AI tools such as Claude and Chi PT to
create codes that can crawl the web like this even if you don't know how to code, and
automate the task.
However, if you do this, there
may be limitations in using it in actual work.
The reason is that if you don't
know the code well, you will often have to
modify the web crawling code later.
This is because
when services update the HTML code, there are changes, and
crawling may not work properly.
So there is an issue that these parts need to be
maintained all the time. Also, if
we want to
update it periodically with automation, you have to
manually run the code every time,
or you have to
learn the settings for automation and apply them.
These parts
can be burdensome. So,
in my opinion, it is still more useful to use a tool like Make to set up automation and use it as a system in actual work, because you can
work without code.
So the
code  It's difficult, but if
you want to build an automated system to increase productivity, I think it would be good to
use Makewaseo API to collect and use data from not only YouTube but also Naver, Yahoo, and
Google search engines.
Then, I will come back next time
with a way to build a system that can increase productivity. If
you are interested, please subscribe, like, and set notifications.
This was Citizen
Developer.
h